Repeating ourselves over and over again and setting the same detailed look over and over again is really
annoying and definitely not what you want.
Well thus far we always work with navigation options which we set up right next to our components.
Now you don't need to do that for settings default settings which you repeat over and over again.
It's actually remove this setting here from the category meal screen and only keep the header title
there because the header title of course depends on this screen and changes with the different values
we get in the screen.
Let's therefore remove the platform import and the colors constant import add the same on categories
screen there.
I will cut this so that they can still use it but I will also remove it therefore from this screen and
only keep the header title leader which is specific to this screen and not the default for all screens
so I'll keep that here and I can therefore also get rid of the platform import and the colors content
import here as well.
And now let's go to the meals navigator because besides setting up navigation options right next year
your components which is the right place for any options that are specific to that component you can
also set up options here directly on the navigator.
You got two different places where you can set them up.
One place is when you're using this more complex screen configuration here.
When you map a screen to your identifiers besides setting up the screen what you want to load with just
a must have value you have here.
You can also add navigation options here and set up some navigation options for these screens here.
So there we could also at the header style the header tint color and now we just need to add the platform
and the colors.
Import here.
So let's quickly do that.
Let's import platform from react.
Native here and let's also import colors from constants colors and if we do that what you'll see is
that on the categories screen we have no color because I only set this coloring here on the category
meals but if we go to that screen therefore we have that coloring.
So we have that same look we had before and now of course we could do the same here for the categories
screen.
So there we can also now turn this into object hence add the navigation options and add the exact same
options so this same object here for this screen.
Now if we do that we also have to color back on the categories screen now.
The small advantage compared to the previous solution of setting this up in each component file instead
we now at least have all the configuration and one at the same file.
Still we're repeating ourselves so it's nice that you can set this up here and for example this would
be a good alternative to setting up our statically set header title for a categories screen meal categories
so we could set this up here instead of into component because it's static anyways doesn't really matter
where we set this up.
But besides such a use case does isn't really an improvement because we still repeat ourselves.
So I'll again cut this from here and instead we can now take advantage of a second argument you can
pass to create stack Navigator.
The first argument is object with your screens.
The second argument allows you to configure that navigator.
We haven't set up any configuration dairy yet and of course in the official box or as I get it here
by my T you'll find a list of all the settings you can set up there.
One important thing you can configure here are the default navigation options and as the name implies
this allows you to set up options that apply to every screen.
Now this takes object with your navigation options but now these options will be applied to every screen
in this navigator so to all three screens here so that you don't have to repeat yourself.
So now if we do that you'll see that color header here.
Also here and all on the detailed screen if you go there.
So now this is of course how you want to set up repeating configurations like the general style which
typically doesn't change from screen to screen.
If it does change that's fine.
You can set it up on a per component basis or here in the screen conflict as I showed you but if it
doesn't change you can use default navigation options here.
Now of course this also brings up another question How are the settings set up here or here merged with
the settings here or instead of a component.
And the rule is very simple there default navigation options get merged with your specific navigation
options set up here or here in the component and the specific options always win.
If you have one and the same key of the same name.
So if I would set up a default header title here like a screen which is of course very generic then
you would still see meal categories here.
Italian here but on the detailed screen where I said no specific header title you would see a screen
so your default navigation options are overwritten.
Now if you set up navigation options here when you configure the screen and instead of the component
they act on the same level and the settings here on the screen level actually win.
So if I said header title to meal categories with multiple exclamation marks here you see that here
on the categories screen and the title you set up in the categories screen component does not win might
be a bit counter-intuitive but this is how it is.
So if you setup navigation options with the same title or with the same names here in the screen context
then the screen context wins but no matter where you set it up it always wins against the default navigation
options.
If you use the same title so therefore here also get rid of the navigation options on my categories
screen.
I don't need that here I'm happy with setting this up directing the screen component but you could set
it up in both places.
It's important that you always remember that default options are overwritten though now besides the
default navigation options in this second object which you pass to create stack navigator you can also
configure other things.
If you had control and space you should see a list here or alternatively consult the official box of
course.
Now typically the defaults are just fine but there for example you can set up the mode and you could
set this to modal default as card if you set this you'll get a mode like transition for loading on your
screen which means the screen slides in from the bottom instead of using the normal animation on Android
you don't see a difference but on ISIS you will.
That's just one thing you can change here to change the default animation in case you want a modal transition
instead of the normal push pop animation here you can also change the initial root name by default I
mentioned it would be the first key value pair but if you don't want to start on the categories screen.
But for some reason on the meal detailed screen you could simply point at meal detail here instead of
categories which you don't need to set up because it's a default and you would start on that screen
as your starting screen.
Of course you can't go back now because it's your initial screen the only screen the stack therefore.
So going back won't work.
Now again I'll reset this two categories and you don't need to add this because this is the default
anyways.
It uses the first key value pair by default.
So with that we had a brief look at some options you can configure and most importantly add navigation
options and default navigation options which is super important to build nice looking and efficient
applications without repeating yourselves over and over again which you of course don't want.
Speaking of efficiency there is one other thing you want to do when working with react navigation or
you wonder.
Consider and that is that you installed one extra package which is react native screens which an expo
apps should be included by default.
But still it doesn't hurt to explicitly install it which allows you to actually ensure that under the
hood react navigation uses native optimized screen components provided by Android.
I was on Android it uses D the fragment in case you're into Android people up a bit and on ayahuasca
it uses the UI view controller and that simply improves performance a little bit more.
Here in this simple app you won't feel it but it's a good practice to use this special package or D
special screens.
Now to use that you should go to a place that runs before you render your first screen which is to capture
us following in our case here and there you can now import use screens from React Native screen.
So from this package you just installed and simply called at after your imports before you do anything
else.
So before you render any jazz ex code this will simply behind the scenes unlock these screens and you
won't see a difference in his app but it's a little bit more performance so it is something I would
recommend doing especially in larger applications.
Again here you don't really see a difference.
But behind the scenes does this now a bit more efficient.